HR POLICY 

The GenITeam Human Resources Policy and Procedure Manual provide the policies 
and procedures for managing and developing staff. It also provides guidelines 
GenITeam will use to administer these policies, with the correct procedure to follow.

GenITeam will keep HR policies current and relevant. Therefore, from time to time it 
will be necessary to modify and amend some sections of the policies and procedures, 
or to add new procedures.   
Any suggestions, recommendations or feedback on the policies and procedures 
specified in this manual are welcome.

These policies and procedures apply to all employees.


PERSONAL CONDUCT 

GenITeam expects its employees to maintain a high standard of conduct and work 
performance to make sure the business maintains its good reputation with customers 
and suppliers. Good personal conduct contributes to a good work environment for all.

This involves all employees: 
• Treating colleagues with courtesy and respect.
• Treating customers and clients in a professional manner at all times.
• Keep your voices low while discussing things.
• Keep friendly and professional behaviour with your fellow employees.

Dress Code Policy 
As a minimum standard, dress should be clean, neat and professional.

CLIENT INFORMATION 
Employees are not allowed to share their personal information with clients nor can 
they disclose contact lists, customers list etc. to people outside their company. Only 
customers that are mentioned on the website can be shared on their public profiles over 
social media; Facebook, LinkedIn.

NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS, PROSPECTS AND EMPLOYEES 
Except with the prior written consent of Employer, during your involvement with 
Employer and for a period of 2 years after the employment ends, you will not directly 
or indirectly, either for yourself or for any other business or person, solicit, call upon, 
attempt to solicit or attempt to call upon any of the customers (existing at the time of 
my leaving Employer) of Employer, and I will not accept any business from such 
customers of Employer for yourself or for any employer during such period. 
Furthermore, I will not seek direct employment with such customers of Employer 
during this period. I will not solicit; attempt to solicit employees of Employer for a 
period of 2 years after my employment ends.


CONSULTING / PART-TIME ASSIGNMENT POLICY 
During your employment with GenITeam, you shall not accept any other consulting / 
part-time assignment with any organization without consent of employer.

EMAIL POLICY 
1. Email facilities are provided for formal business correspondence.
2. Take care to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive information. If emails need 
    to be preserved, they should be backed up and stored offsite.
3. Limited private use of email is allowed if it doesn’t interfere with or distract 
    from an employee’s work.
4. No material is to be sent as email that is defamatory, in breach of copyright or 
    business confidentiality, or prejudicial to the good standing of GenITeam in the 
    community or to its relationship with staff, clients and any other person or 
    business with whom it has a relationship.
5. Email must not contain material that amounts to gossip about colleagues or that 
    could be offensive, demeaning, persistently irritating, threatening, and 
    discriminatory, involves the harassment of others or concerns personal 
    relationships.
6. When using email, a person must not pretend to be another person or use 
    another person’s computer without permission.
7. Excessive private use, including mass mailing, “reply to all” etc. that are not 
    part of the person’s duties, is not permitted.

LAPTOP POLICY 
GenITeam is providing staff members with laptops. These laptops can be used inside 
and outside the company by the staff in order to enhance, enrich, and facilitate their 
tasks and goals.

Rules for laptop use:
1. The company laptops are to be used for company-related business as a 
    productivity tool.
2. Laptops issued to staff are company’s property.
3. The laptop is intended to serve as your primary computer workstation. If you 
    already have a desktop computer, it will in most cases be replaced by the laptop.
    Desktop systems will be redistributed.
4. The laptop is provided for your use, but it remains the property of GenITeam.
5. In case you have problems with your laptop, notify your Network 
    Administrator right away.
6. The laptop will be configured with a standard suite of programs that are 
    appropriate for the type of laptop you received based upon GenITeam 
    software standards. Other applications may be provided to you based upon 
    your professional needs and/or requirements.
7. Staff should NOT install software or hardware, or change any system 
    configuration. All software and/or hardware installations or system 
    configuration requests must be submitted through Network Administrator.
8. If junior staff is assigned the laptop, he/she must take written permission from 
    manager / team lead before carrying laptop to his home. Request form is 
    available from Network Administrator; in case of oral permission staff 
    member must email his Manager and CC network department.
9. Staff is expected to protect laptops from damage and theft.
10. Staff is monetarily responsible for any hardware or software damage or loss 
    inflicted to the laptop due to negligence on his/her part.
11. Staff agrees to pay replacement costs of lost laptops and peripherals, or repair 
    costs for damage due to negligence on his/her part.
12. Staff will not be held responsible for computer problems resulting from 
    regular routine use.
13. All policies as well as the Acceptable Use Policy apply to the use of all laptop 
    computers inside and outside the company’s premises.
14. Since the laptop’s keyboard and touch pad are permanently attached to the rest 
    of the system, make sure that your hands are clean before using them. It is 
    costly to change a damaged laptop keyboard and/or touch pad due to 
    excessive dirt.
15. Do not place drinks or food in close proximity to your laptop.
16. Extreme temperatures or sudden changes in temperature can damage a laptop.
    You should NOT leave the laptop in any unattended vehicle.
17. When using the laptop, keep it on a flat, solid surface so that air can circulate 
    through it. Using the laptop while it is directly on a bed, for example, can cause 
    it to overheat and become damaged.
18. Due to their size and portability, laptop computers are especially vulnerable to 
    theft. Do not leave a laptop in an unlocked vehicle, even if the vehicle is in your 
    driveway or garage, and never leave it in plain sight. If you must leave your 
    laptop in a vehicle, the best place is in a locked trunk. If you do not have a trunk, 
    cover it up and lock the doors.
19. Carry your laptop in a nondescript carrying case or bag when traveling.
20. Do not leave a meeting or conference room without your laptop. Take it with 
    you.
21. If a theft does occur, you must notify the reporting Network Administrator as 
    soon as possible.
22. Company’s laptops are not allowed to be used for any personal purpose.
23. Your issued laptop carrying case is rated for a maximum load of 15 lbs. Your 
    laptop weighs 7 lbs. Over packing the carrying case with books and other items 
    can cause the handle to break, which in turn can cause damage to the laptop if 
    dropped.

INTERNET USE POLICY 
The internet is provided by GenITeam for work. Limited private use is permitted if the 
private use does not interfere with a person’s work and that inappropriate sites are not 
accessed. Management has the right to access the system to check if private use is 
excessive or inappropriate.

INTERNSHIP POLICY 
The GenITeam Solutions Internship Policy is established to provide motivated and 
ambitious students with a wealth of challenging tasks and exposure to the day-to-day 
technical learning in a highly professional environment.

Moreover, an Internship is an excellent opportunity for students pursuing 
undergraduate or graduate studies and even for fresh graduates to familiarize 
themselves with the organization, working methods and corporate culture.

Duration 
Each Internship posting will be for 1-3 months, full time (40 hours per week). In special 
cases, an Internship can be arranged for any duration between 1 month to a year, 
depending upon the needs of the function/business and Internship requirement.

Stipend 
Interns shall receive the monthly stipend:
• Undergraduate or graduate students will be paid 12K-15K on monthly basis.
• Fresh graduates will be paid 20K on monthly basis.
Interns are not eligible for travelling allowance, medical insurance, provident fund and 
any other type of benefits.

Professional Expectations 
Interns are expected to be punctual for all meetings and complete work assignments 
within the timeframe specified by their supervisor. Interns are expected to strictly work 
within the working hours of GenITeam (9:00 AM – 6:00 PM, including 1-hour lunch 
break).

The following actions of the Intern may lead to termination, including absence without 
prior intimation, unacceptable behavior, fraud or any other breach of confidentiality. 
Interns are expected to respect and maintain confidentiality with all information and 
data they may encounter during the Internship. In the case of illness, the Intern must 
notify the Human Resources Manager as soon as possible. Upon completion of the 
Internship, the Intern must return all property belonging to GenITeam.

GenITeam management may offer employment to interns based on performance and 
behavior. An Internship certificate will be awarded to all designated interns.

ISSUES / COMPLAINTS POLICY 
Procedure: To make a complaint 
If you believe you are being, or have been, discriminated against, sexually harassed, 
bullied or irritated by someone’s behavior which causes a continuous disturbance, you 
should follow this procedure:

1. Tell the offender the behavior is offensive, unwelcome, and against business 
   policy and should stop (only if you feel comfortable enough to approach them  
   directly; otherwise speak to your manager). Keep a written record of the 
   incident(s).
2. If the unwelcome behavior continues, contact your HR Manager for support.
3. If this is inappropriate, you feel uncomfortable, or the behavior persists, 
   contact another senior manager.

Employees should feel confident that any complaint they make will be treated as  
confidential as far as possible.

Possible outcomes 
If after investigation management finds the complaint is justified, management will 
discuss with the complainant the appropriate outcomes, which may include:
1. Disciplinary action against the perpetrator (counseling, warning or dismissal)
2. Counseling for the complainant
3. An apology (the particulars to be agreed between all involved)

WORK TIMINGS & TASK STATUS 
Monday to Thursday: 09:00 AM to 06:00 PM  
(Lunch & Prayer Break: 01:00 PM to 02:00 PM)
Friday: 09:00 AM to 06:30 PM  
(Jumma Prayer & Lunch Break 1:00 PM to 02:30 PM)
Saturday & Sunday: Off day

Note: Jumma/Lunch Break timings vary according to daylight saving, if applicable.
Individual operations may have different hours at management’s discretion. Working 
hours during Ramadan will be announced separately each year.

GenITeam believes in completion of assigned tasks rather than fixed time slots. Task 
completion should guarantee full allocation hours (8 per day). Management decides 
completion criteria.

ATTENDANCE POLICY 
1. Employees must record in/out attendance on HRM/Assembla portal. 
2. Flexible 15-minute grace (till 09:15 AM). Exit time adjusted to complete 8 hours/day or 
   40 hours/week, otherwise deduct from Casual Leave (CL).
3. Arriving after 09:15 AM without notification is late. Four lates = 1 day CL deducted. 
   Two lates exempted.
4. If late or absent for any reason, notify superior timely or leave balance will be 
   deducted. Grace for late arrival is up to 10:30 AM (1.5 hours). After that is half-day 
   leave deducted from CL.
5. Leaving office during hours for non-official work requires supervisor notification via 
   email to supervisor and HR, noting expected and actual return times. Non-working 
   hours must be made up to complete 8 hours or deducted as half-day CL.
6. Altering or falsifying time records leads to disciplinary action or termination.
7. Strict punctuality required—persistent unexcused lateness is unacceptable.
8. If no CL left, deduction is made from salary as half or full day.
9. Employees must self-administer attendance policy.
10. Absent 3 consecutive days without intimation = job abandonment.

LEAVE POLICY 
Procedure: To take a leave 
1. Submit leave request via ORANGE HR PORTAL to supervisor, stating reason.
2. Approval is at supervisor’s discretion based on work exigencies.
3. Not informing before time = absent and salary deduction.
4. Upon approval, supervisor forwards to HR Manager to adjust leave balance.

LEAVE TYPES 
All employees are eligible for paid leave days annually. Leave year = calendar year; 
annual leave due after 1 year of confirmation.

Casual Leaves (CL) 
• 8 CL per year (prorated). Cannot be carried forward or encashed.
• Max 2 days at a time; 3+ days = annual leave unless approved by HoD.
• Unapproved excess = leave without pay.

Sick Leaves (SL) 
• 6 SL per year (prorated). Cannot be encashed.
• >3 days requires medical certificate; can be requested for 1 day.
• If SL exhausted, management may grant annual leave.

Annual Leaves (AL) 
• Permanent employees get 10 days after 1 year service.
• Max 20 days carry forward; excess expires end of hiring month.
• Encashment up to max on death to nominated heirs.
• Min 3 days per application; pre-planned 1 month in advance.
• Intervening Sundays, off Saturdays, public holidays not counted.
• Cannot combine CL/SL/CPL with AL.

Compensatory Leave (CPL) 
• For 8+ hours work on Sat/Sun/Public Holiday; 1 CPL + 600 PKR lunch.
• <8 hours = no CPL.
• Requires written approval.

Half Day Leave 
• 4-hour leave allowed for SL & CL, deducted from balance.

Maternity & Paternity Leaves 
• Female: 90 calendar days paid maternity.
• Male: 2 days paid paternity.

Leave without Pay 
• After exhausting entitled leaves, management may grant full/half day leave without pay at discretion.

Absent 
• Leave without proper information may be marked absent (unapproved).

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 

Provident Fund 
1. Employee contribution of Rs 1500 from monthly salary after probation.
2. Employer contributes equal Rs 1500 after probation.
3. Withdraw savings upon leaving.
4. Employer’s contribution vests after 1 year service.
5. No deductions or contributions during notice period.

LOAN POLICY 
Eligibility
• Permanent employees eligible for interest-free loan subject to funds and purpose.
• Genuine verifiable purpose required.
Amount & Repayment
• Max loan per grading & incentive structure; higher requires CEO approval.
• Repayable in 12 monthly installments via salary deduction starting next month.
• Minimum 1 year service required.
• Repeat application after 1 year; in exceptional cases after 6 months with HR Director approval.
Procedure
1. Fill loan application form from HR.
2. Submit future cheque for total amount (on due date), returned when loan repaid.
3. HR verifies eligibility and forwards to HR Director for approval.
4. If sanctioned, HR instructs Finance to process payment.
5. If leaving before repayment, employee must settle balance before resignation.

OPD POLICY 
Eligibility
• Full-time/permanent employees + spouse, children, parents in Pakistan.
• Not available during probation.
Out Patient
1. Covers consultations, investigations, lab tests, child vaccinations, allopathic/homeopathic 
   treatments, prescribed medicines for existing/pre-existing conditions.
2. Prescriptions required for medicines & lab tests.
3. No prescription for standard OTC medicines.
4. Dental: extractions, root canal, crown, filling, X-rays.
5. Dermatology: acne, eczema, dermatitis, autoimmune skin diseases.
6. Optical: checkups, tests, medicines.
Exclusion
• Medical equipment, rehab items, baby formulas, vitamins, physiotherapy, cosmetic treatments, 
  contact lenses, powered glasses, contraception, fitness supplements.
Procedure
1. Use authorized hospitals/clinics, pay upfront, then claim by submitting:
   – Original computerized receipt & prescription.
   – Manual invoices require hospital/pharmacy stamp; no overwriting.
   – Vaccination card for child vaccinations.
2. Submit to Admin/HR with copies.
3. Keep records of claims.
4. Medical claim officer may verify bills.
5. Forged billing = gross misconduct.
6. Submit claims by 26th of each month.
7. Reimbursements processed monthly to salary account.
8. Company reimburses 3% of gross monthly salary.

MATERNITY MEDICAL COVERAGE 
• Covered under Pak-Qatar Maternity Policy for 9 months; pre-existing conditions excluded.
• Employees must register spouses for eligibility.
Coverage Limits:
Plan A (G4, G4-A, G5): Normal PKR 50,000/yr; Complicated PKR 70,000/yr.
Plan B (G2, G3, G3-A): Normal PKR 50,000/yr; Complicated PKR 70,000/yr.
Plan C (G1, G1-A): Normal PKR 30,000/yr; Complicated PKR 50,000/yr.

OVERSEAS TRIP POLICY 
1. Employees may travel worldwide for business needs.
2. All travel bookings via company travel agent.
3. Agent to issue tickets only days before travel.
4. Company pays lodging when on deputation/training.
5. Local conveyance & official travel bills reimbursed at actual.
6. Foreign exchange expenses supported by bills.
7. Use visiting office communication for official purposes.
8. Inform GenITeam Lahore management of safe arrival and contact details.
9. On return, submit comprehensive report within 7 working days.
Guidelines:
– Visa & travel arrangements covered.
– Accommodation in company apartment.
– Daily travel & food allowance: 80–100 AED.
– SIM card: 50 AED.
– Keep meeting logs & Assembla updates.

EMPLOYEE REFERRAL POLICY 
• Purpose: Recruit high-quality IT talent.
• Award: PKR 10,000 per successful referral (50% upfront, 50% after 3 months).
Reason:
• Competitive IT talent market.
• Promote equal employment opportunity.
Eligibility:
1. Referrer must be regular employee.
2. Not involved in selection process.
3. Managers and HR staff ineligible.
Candidate:
4. Must meet position qualifications.
5. Follow application process.
6. Accept full-time offer and remain 6 months in good standing.
Award:
1. If multiple referrals, first submitted gets credit.
2. HR notifies referrer when hired.

GRADING STRUCTURE 
Grades – Designations – Experience – Responsibilities
G1-Officer Associate 0-1 year – Fresh SE/CG/SQA Associates /MTO
G1-A Officer SE/CG/SQA /Officer 1-2 years – Functional Level
G2-Sr.Officer SSE/Sr.CG 3-4 years – Lead 2-4 resources
G3-Executives PSE/PCG/Principal QA 4-7 years – Lead 5-10 resources
G3-A Sr.Staff Engineer/Exec /Assoc 7-10 years – Lead 11-20 resources
G4 Architect/APM/Assoc Managers 8+ years – Strategic Contributions
G4-A Manager/Sr.Manager 10+ years – Head 20-40 resources
G5 Sr.Manager/Sr.Architect 15+ years – Strategic + Head 2 divisions

INCENTIVE STRUCTURE 
Grades – OPD – Health Insurance – Maternity – Provident Fund – Loan – Car Financing – Travel Allowance
G1-Officer – 3% Gross Salary – PKR 150,000/yr Self+Spouse – PKR 30K Normal, 50K Complicated – 1 Basic Salary – N/A – 7,000 PKR/mo
G1-A Officer – 3% Gross Salary – PKR 150,000/yr Self+Spouse – PKR 30K Normal, 50K Complicated – 2 Basic Salaries – N/A – 8,000 PKR/mo
G2-Sr.Officer – 3% Gross Salary – PKR 150,000/yr Self+Spouse+2 Children – PKR 50K Normal, 70K Complicated – 2.5 Basic Salaries – N/A – 14,000 PKR/mo
G3-Executives – 3% Gross Salary – PKR 200,000/yr Self+Spouse+2 Children – 50K Normal, 70K Complicated – 3 Basic Salaries – N/A – 20,000 PKR/mo
G3-A Sr Executive – 3% Gross Salary – PKR 200,000/yr Self+Spouse+2 Children – 50K Normal, 70K Complicated – 3 Basic Salaries – 1000 cc car @ 60% Emp/40% Er – 22,000 PKR/mo
G4 Assoc Managers – 3% Gross Salary – PKR 200,000/yr Self+Spouse+2 Children – 50K Normal, 70K Complicated – 3-4 Basic Salaries – 1000 cc car @ 60% Emp/40% Er – 25,000 PKR/mo
G4-A Managers – 3% Gross Salary – PKR 200,000/yr Self+Spouse+2 Children – 50K Normal, 70K Complicated – 4-5 Basic Salaries – 1300 cc car @ 60% Emp/40% Er – 34,000 PKR/mo
G5-Sr Managers – 3% Gross Salary – PKR 200,000/yr Self+Spouse+2 Children – 50K Normal, 70K Complicated – 5-7 Basic Salaries – 1500 cc car @ 60% Emp/40% Er – 42,000 PKR/mo

RESIGNATION & TERMINATION POLICY 
Resignation
1. Confirmed employees: 1-month notice; probationary: 1-week notice or pay in lieu.
2. Notice subject to loan repayment.
3. Notice effective from submission date.
4. Final settlement within 30 working days after last working day; salary released if 
   after 10th of next month; PF released later.
5. Benefits (Provident Fund, Insurance, OPD) cease on resignation acceptance; 
   medical insurance during notice may be approved.
6. Deletion or tampering of company data = disciplinary action + damage costs.
7. Experience certificate, clearance letter & final settlement on hold if separation 
   process incomplete.
8. Company gives same notice period or pay in lieu for termination (not due to misconduct).
9. Resignation on leave = treated as no notice.
10. Leaves taken after resignation = unpaid (1 leave day = 2 days unpaid).
Note: Salary increments may be revoked if resignation within 1 month of increment.

Non-Competing Technology 
If terminated before 2 years, you agree not to engage in competing technology learning/
development you worked on during GenITeam. Otherwise, pay 2 months salary as 
compensation.

Termination process
1. Verbal warnings for poor performance by supervisor.
2. Below average performance = official warning from HR; status may change to 
   probation with new objectives.
3. Unsatisfactory probation performance = termination letter.
4. Gross misconduct = immediate termination without notice/pay in lieu after inquiry.